# License and Acknowledgments

## Derived Work Acknowledgment

This project is derived and inspired by:

1. **xv6-riscv-fpga** (https://gitlab.com/x653/xv6-riscv-fpga/)  xv6-riscv-fpga
is an FPGA implementation of a RISC-V CPU (rv32ia_zicsr) based on the Olimex
iCE40HX8K-EVB development board capable of running UNIX xv6
(https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2022/xv6.html), using only FOSS (free and
open-source hardware and software).  Copyright 2023 Michael Schröder  

2. **xv6-riscv** (https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-riscv/)  This port is based
on commit
[de247db5e6384b138f270e0a7c745989b5a9c23b](https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-riscv/commit/de247db5e6384b138f270e0a7c745989b5a9c23b)
of the official xv6-riscv repository by the MIT PDOS group. This commit
represents the most recent upstream changes integrated into this project.

## Modifications and Extensions

This project includes:
- Porting of the **latest xv6** (with supervisor SSTC) to the Kianv RISC-V SoC.
- Adjustments and enhancements to the SoC code, informed by the work done in
  xv6-riscv-fpga and xv6-riscv, tailored to the specific architecture of the
  Kianv SoC.
- Integration of features from the referenced xv6-riscv commit, extended to
  support the specific peripherals and constraints of the Kianv SoC.

## Copyright Notice

This project is copyright © 2024 Hirosh Dabui  GitHub:
[splinedrive/kianvRiscV](https://github.com/splinedrive/kianvRiscV)

## License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

1. The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 2. Attribution must be
provided to:
   - The original xv6-riscv-fpga project by Michael Schröder
     (https://gitlab.com/x653/xv6-riscv-fpga/)
   - The official xv6-riscv project by the MIT PDOS group
     (https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-riscv/) and its commit
     [de247db5e6384b138f270e0a7c745989b5a9c23b](https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-riscv/commit/de247db5e6384b138f270e0a7c745989b5a9c23b)
   - This derived work (https://github.com/splinedrive/kianvRiscV/)
   
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES, OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

